# Introduction

As you probably have read, Infernal is a 2D game engine written in Java 21 with LWJGL. 
This engine was intended as a project to prove that if you don't have AAA games in mind you can certainly build a 
custom game engine for your self in another language than C++ if you want. In my case this was Java because first of all 
I'm familiar with Java, and secondly I wanted to learn the general concepts of OpenGL, OpenAL, LWJGL and game engine development
in general, in a programming language that I know.

So I did set out on a journey of learning and developing a game engine that will fit my specific needs. As you can see in the code
and in the docs, overtime I have planned a handful of features that the engine should have and designed this as systems.
The architecture of Infernal is heavily inspired by Jason Gregory's book **Game Engine Architecture**. In there 
he discusses modularization and splitting your engine in different modules and layers. If you look at the infographic
he included, that shows what a commercial engine might include, you can derive what you absolutely need for your engine and what is **Sugar** as I like to call it. 

In this documentation you can read about my thought processes while developing certain systems and parts of the game engine.
I have written this in a way that is easy to understand if you read this chronologically and can google a bit or buy the books im referencing.
By no means my way of implementing a game engine is the only way and definitely not the perfect way and I don't claim this in any way.
This is just my way of doing things, my way of learning and maybe for someone out there a good reference and inspiration.

## Content

1. [Entrypoint](1.Entrypoint.md)
2. [Event System](2.Event_System.md)
3. [Window System](3.Window.md)
4. [Input System](4.Input_System.md)
5. [Debug System](5.Debug_System.md)
6. [Serialization / Deserialization](6.Serialization_System.md)
7. [Localization](7.Localization.md)
8. [Math](8.Math_Engine.md)
9. [Low Level Networking Library](9.Low_Level_Networking.md)
10. [Asset Management](10.Asset_Manager.md)
11. [Platform Detection](11.Platform_Detection.md)
12. [Time](12.Time_System.md)
13. [Primitives & Custom Datatypes](13.Primitives.md)
14. [Third Party Libraries](14.Third_Party_Libraries.md)
15. [Rendering](15.Rendering.md)
16. [Audio](16.Audio.md)
17. [Physics](17.Physics.md)
18. [UI System](18.UI_System.md)
19. [Scene System](19.Scene_System.md)
20. [Entity Component System](20.ECS.md)
21. [Projects](21.Projects.md)
22. [Runtime](22.Runtime.md)
23. [Multiplayer System](23.Multiplayer_System.md)
24. [Native Scripting System](24.Scripting_System.md)
25. [AI System](25.AI_System.md)